we begin in the Middle East the United
States says it's working to prevent the
conflict between Israel and the Lebanese
group Hezbollah from escalating into a
regional war after Sunday's heavy
bombardments the UN Secretary General
Antonio grz has called for an immediate
end to hostilities on both sides in a
televised address hezbollah's Secretary
General Hassan nazala said that the
delay in the retaliation attack for the
assassination of its military commander
last month was to keep Israel on edge he
also said they still have to assess the
impact of its barrage and did not roll
out another strike from Tel Aviv
Benjamin Netanyahu said that Israel's
air strikes were not the end of the
story and added they had destroyed
thousands of hezbollah's short range
rockets and no progress on the Gaza
ceasefire talks in Cairo either Hamas
which has now left the Egyptian Capital
said it rejected new Israeli conditions
and accused them of backtracking in on
promises Israel denies changing its
demands since a last round of talks in
early July all for more on this we can
speak to our Middle East correspondent
in Beirut Hugo Bea so Hugo we heard that
Hezbollah isn't rolling out further
attacks Benjamin Netanyahu is saying
it's not the end of the story where are
we yeah I think it was very interesting
that last night the powerful leader of
Hezbollah Hassan azrah gave that speech
essentially he said that the attack was
over the retaliation for the killing of
fad Shuka the senior Hezbollah Commander
was assassinated by Israel here in
Beirut a month ago and Hassan nzala also
said that gave indications that uh no
major operations against Israel were
being planned so I think he was trying
to deescalate tensions with Israel uh
yesterday there were concerns that those
attacks could uh lead to a major
conflict between Hezbollah and Israel
we've seen that so far this violence has
been relatively contained to areas along
the Lebanon Israel border uh nzala did
say that uh the group could attack
Israel uh again but given everything
else in the speech I think this seemed
to be something that had to be said
rather than uh a threat against Israel
uh and the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu also y today said
that uh what happened was not the end of
the story and again I don't think it's
surprising that he's saying it uh he
needs to keep all his options on the
table he's under a lot of pressure to
act against Hezbollah to allow the
return of tens of thousands of uh
residents who have been displaced from
uh communities uh in Northern Israel but
uh behind the scenes there have been
indications that both sides have said
they're not interested in further
escalation obviously this doesn't mean
that the conflict between Hezbollah and
Israel is over but again we see
indications that uh they're not
interested in a major conflict that
could have catastrophic consequences not
only for Lebanon but also for uh Israel
and uh the main hope uh of of a
deescalation here is a ceasefire deal in
Gaza and we've seen that the latest
round of talks for a deal uh in Cairo
ended yesterday without a major
breakthrough
so what's the the state of alert there
then Hugo in in in light of the recent
events yeah so for weeks uh we've been
waiting for this uh response by uh
Hezbollah and uh the work concerns that
this could lead to a major escalation
and there have been fears here in
Lebanon that Hezbollah could be dragging
this country into another confrontation
with Israel uh many people here still
remember what happened in 2006 uh the
war between Hezbollah and Israel the
devastation caused by the conflict not
only to areas of Southern Lebanon but
also to parts of Southern Beirut and
many people you know fear that history
might be repeating itself it seems now
that uh you know worst case scenario has
been averted at least for now there have
been these indications from Hassan
nazala that the group is not interested
in uh in an escalation of these
hostilities with with Israel and even uh
in Israel we're seeing that there have
been some signs that uh you know the
Israeli government is also trying to
prevent a major escalation with
Hezbollah but again uh there has been a
lot of anger uh from residents in the
north of the country they say that they
have been under attack uh almost every
day with rockets being fired from
Hezbollah and they've been urging the
Israeli authorities to do something to
uh
push Hezbollah away from the border and
to allow the return of tens of thousands
of people who have had to flee their
homes in Northern Israel because of this
violence happening along the border okay
Hugo Bea in beir thank you very much
well for more let's speak to Yosi bin
former Justice minister of Israel and
one of the initiators of uh Israel
Palestine Oslo Peace Accords thanks very
much for your time here on BBC News
let's pick up with those peace talks
then in light of what's happened is is
there any chance of those uh talks
having a positive
outcome yes I believe that uh Israel
doesn't want to continue this war it is
really long
overdue and I hope that this is also the
situation on the Hamas Side ER the point
is that it is not peace talks of course
it is it is talks about a ceasefire
hopefully a long ceas fire and uh the
other side is not recognizing Israel and
Israel is not recognizing Hamas of
course and to get to the decision makers
on the other side is very difficult so
what you hear is is rumors from time to
time or
a declaration of one of the Hamas people
but the groups are there I mean the the
the teams uh are there negotiating still
and I hope that it will end by an
agreement this agreement is not going to
be an historic one but it will put an
end at least to the
current situation whereby people
innocent people are killed and and you
don't see any
Horizon the US is saying it's it's
working to prevent the uh any conflict
escalating what what can they do to move
on these peace
talks well they are doing a lot they are
actually the main player not the only
one because you have Qatar and you have
Egypt but it is a very important
player and I think that they can put
push the the parties directly indirectly
they have their own ways and and I hope
that eventually reason will prevail
and it would be possible to put an end
to it I mean we are there in in a kind
of an ongoing war from September October
the massacre of
Hamas in the southern of side of the
part of Israel and nobody is is gaining
anything from this war just losing we
know obviously the elections uh in the
United States are coming up presumably
Netanyahu will be watching those closely
and I I was just saying that with the uh
elections in the US uh coming up
Netanyahu were presumably watching those
very closely to see what
happens yeah but I I don't think that
this is going to have any
direct impact first of all the the
elections are very close but uh the the
20 of January is further and we have to
put an end to this situation much before
I think that waiting for the 20th of
January and hopefully netanyahu's
candidate will not
win but even if he wins I think that
waiting for him is
a is a kind of betting because you never
know with this person ER I mean Trump of
course what is he going to do what is he
going to say he may surprise the world
this way or another if God forbid is
elected and it was and if it is as I
hope Kamala Harris it it will be the
same kind of a policy like the the
current policy of President Biden okay
we have to leave it there Yosi bin thank
you very much for your time here on BBC
News